Name Satyaki Sett
Sem 8th
Paper Name E-commerce
Paper code> CS 802E Assignment (CAI)
Section A
Roll No 13000117055

Describe features of E commence.
Ans. Features of E-commerce includes! E-commence is Technology. Enabled!
Traditional commence is taking place since times immemorial but E-commence is result of integration of digital technology with business processes and Commercial transactions.

Technology Mediated!
E-commence does not require face to face contact, since buyer and Setlen meet in cyber space.

iii.  Universality:
Buying and selling takes place through websites, which can be accessed from anywhere around the globe at any time.

iv. Intercommunication!

E-commence technology ensures two-way communication between buyer and seller. Onone hand by using. E-commence firms can be communicating with customers through E-commence enabled websites. On the others. Hand, customers can also fill under forms, feedback forms and can communicate with business firms.

v. Delivery of Information! E-commence technology ensures speedy delivery

of information at very low cost and considerably increase information density as well. Vi Electronic completion of Business Processes! By using E-commence, we perform business transactions like accounting and inventory through computers at global level.

vii. Anter-Disciplinary in Nature!

Implementation of E-commence needs a lot of knowledge of managerial, technological Social and legal issues. Besides this understanding of consumer behaviour, marketing tools and financial aspects is as crucial as designing interactive E-commerce websites.

viii. Customization!

With the use of E-commence technology, the world. Is moving from mass production to mall customization. Product customization the goods are tailor made as per the requirements and preferences of customers.  



2. State the applications of E-commence And Applications of E-commence. 

 

I Retail and wholesale! 

 

E-retailing refers to transaction of goods and services. Through online stores from businesses to consumers, which is done through means of virtual shopping carts and catalogues. 

 

ii. Finance: 

 

Online banking provides provisions such as balance check. Bill payment, money transfer etc. 

 

iii. Manufacturing. 

 

In manufacturing, &. Commence form! Medium for companies to execute the electronic exchange Combine buying and selling, sharing market status, inventory check information. Etc. 

 

Enables groups of companies to fluidly carry out their operations. 

 

iv. Marketing. Marketing activities such as pricing, product features, building customer relationships can be strengthened using e-commerce to provide users an enhanced and customized shopping experience. 

 

v. Online Shopping: 

 

Online shopping is comfortable, convenient and most times, cost effective. The shopping preferences of people have thus undergone a massive change in the last few years. 

 

vi. Mobile and Web Applications. 

 

Mobile on web applications development has become a staple for brands to showcase their business capabilities. The consumer cappies out purchases through mobile on web applications that are optimised for the retailer. 

 

vii. Online booking! 

 

Online booking helps people book travel essentials Services like train/flight tickets, hotel rooms. Transportation services, etc. It makes travel very convenient and easy for people. 

 

viii. E-banking! 

Internet banking is an e-commence application that has simplified time consuming and complex banking processes for people. It enables bank users to perform transactions easily online and without having to wait in long queues in bank. 

 

3 Difference between traditional commence and 

 

Traditional commerce 

 

Traditional Commence refers to the commercial exchange. Or transactions of information buying or selling product service from person. Person without internet. 

Difficult to establish It is easy to establish and maintain stand and practice. 

Processing of transaction is manual. 

Delivery of goods is instant. 

It is and maintain standard practices 

Accessibility is ton limited time in a day. 

It is is done where digital network is not reachable. 

 

E-commerce 

 

E-commerce refers to the commercial transactions or exchange of information, buying on selling with the help of internet. 

Processing of transaction is automatic.  

Delivery of goods take time 

Accessibility is 24x7x365 it is to save valuable time and money. 

It is to save valuable time and money. 


4 Write a short Note on EDI 

 

Ans: The Electronic Data Intencourage (EDI) is the exchange of business documents between one trade Partners and another electronically. It is transferred through a dedicated channel through the internet in a predefined format. Without much human intervention. It is used to transfer documents such as delivery notes, invoices, purchase orders, etc. 

 

There documents and transferred directly from the computer of the issuing company to that of the receiving company, with great time saving and avoiding many errors communications. On traditional on paper communications. 

5. Discuss various advantages of E-commerce. Ans! Advantages of t. Commence! I.E., commence provides the setter with global reach. 

 

They remove the barrier of place. Now sellers and buyers can meet in the virtual world. Without the hindrance of location. Electronic Commence will substantially lower, the transaction cost. It eliminates many fixed costs at maintaining brick and mostan shop. This allows the companies to enjoy a much Higher Margin of profit. 

 

iii. It provides quick delivery of goods with little effort on pant of customer. It saves time, energy and efforts for both customer and the company. 

 

iv. A customer can shop 24x7. The website is functional at all times, it does not have working hours like a shop. 

 

E-commerce also allows the customers and the business to be in touch directly, without any intermediaries. This allows for quick communication and transactions. Fof infor
